# Project Name

Recommendation System - Personal

## Description

This project is a recommendation system built in Python that provides personalized recommendations based on user input. It utilizes various libraries and technologies including Streamlit, Pymongo, Pandas, SpaCy, and Sklearn.

The frontend interaction of the system is developed using Streamlit, which provides a user-friendly interface for users to input their preferences and view the recommendations generated by the system.

Data is stored in MongoDB, and the application connects to the database using Pymongo. The data is prepared for modeling using Pandas, allowing for efficient data manipulation and preprocessing. SpaCy is used for tokenization, enabling the system to understand the text input from users. Sklearn is utilized for vectorization, transforming the text data into a numerical representation suitable for machine learning.

The recommendation model is based on the K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) algorithm. By fitting the data to the KNN model, the system can find similar items or recommendations based on the user's input.

## Technologies Used

- Streamlit
- Pymongo
- Pandas
- SpaCy
- Sklearn
- Python
- MongoDB

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

git clone https://github.com/camerondawkins0/recommendation-system.git

2. Install the required dependencies:

pip install -r requirements.txt

3. Start the application:

streamlit run app.py

## Usage

1. Access the application through the provided URL or localhost.
2. Input your preferences in the provided fields.
3. Click the "Generate Recommendations" button.
4. View the recommendations generated by the system.

## Contributing

Contributions to this project are welcome. If you encounter any issues or have suggestions for improvements, please submit an issue or a pull request to the GitHub repository.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
